---
layout: post
date:   2015-02-10 11:26
tags:   release-notes
title:  Major content update for Swift 1.2
description: ""
---

Big changes afoot in this release! To wit, a high-level look at what's in and what's out:

### Types

- A new collection type, `Set`, joins `Array` and `Dictionary`, bringing along with it `SetIndex` and `SetGenerator`.
- We bid adieu to `HeapBuffer`, `HeapBufferStorage`, and `OnHeap`, while welcoming `ManagedBuffer`, `ManagedBufferPointer`, and `ManagedProtoBuffer`. ♫ *Make new friends, but keep the ooooold...* ♪
- `Process` has changed from a global variable to an `enum` with static properties, clearing out the only globally scoped variables.
- `NonObjectiveCBase` comes on board to help with uniquely identifying instances of reference types.
- `String` has had some reorganizing, with `String.UTF16View` losing `Int` subscripting as it gets its own `Index`.

### Protocols

- Most of the action in protocol additions/removals/renamings has been in the underscore-prefixed, stdlib-internal, unsupported group of protocols. In general, `_SwiftNS*` lose the `Swift` and `*RequiredOverridesType` map to `*CoreType`.
- Several other `_*` protocols are now visible: `_ArrayType`, `__ArrayType`, `_DestructorSafeContainer`, `_PointerType`, `_StringElementType`, and, coming to CBS this fall, the mysterious new action drama `_ShadowProtocol`.

### Functions

- `countElements` is now simply `count`, which `count("countElements") - count("count")` tells us is a savings of eight letters.
- `isUniquelyReferenced` and `isUniquelyReferencedNonObjC` have been brought up from the internal stdlb, making it possible to implement third-party copy-on-write behavior.
- `zip` provides functional access to the `Zip2` type.

Updated to Swift version 1.2 (swift-602.0.37.3).
